This directory contains a bunch of scripts that I use
to organize photos into HTML albums.  They are not
likely of any interest or use to other people and are
stored here entirely for my own convenience and
backup.

Requirements:
- ImageMagick
- ffmpeg

They are:

- 'adddate'

  A script to add a timestamp to a picture from
  another picture.  This can be useful if you have a
  modified image that lost the original timestamp.

  adddate original.jpg copy.jpg

- 'combinevideos'

  A script to combine a number of videos into a single
  video.  The original videos remain unmodified, the
  combined output will be 'combined.mov'.

  combinevideos 1.mov 2.mov 3.mov

- 'dedupe'

  A very dumb way of removing duplicates by renaming
  each file to the name of its md5 checksum.
  Subsequent copies will thus overwrite the previous
  copy, thereby removing duplicates.

  Iterates over all files in the current working
  directory.


- 'livegif'

  A script to turn an Apple 'Live' photo (in '.mov'
  format) into a gif.  Takes as argument 'v' to
  indicate a vertical orientation (480x640), 's'
  to indicate a square format (480x480) or 'h'
  (default) for a horizontal format (640x480).

  A third parameter may be given to indicate that the
  gif should loop.

  livegif photo.mov v loop

- 'prepvideos'

  A script to iterate over all movies in the current
  working directory to create medium sized scaled down
  videos as well as aa picture from the first frame.
  The video and frame picture will be renamed to the
  timestamp.  Output files will be .ogv.

- 'shift-instagrampic'

  Kinda the same as 'adddate'?  I forgot why I have
  this.

- 'sortpics'

  This script iterates over files named *.gif, *.jpg,
  *.JPG, *.png, and *.PNG, and extracts the timestamp
  from the EXIF data.

  From that data, it builds an array of "final names",
  which is a pathname under
  "../all/<year>/<month>/<day>" with the filename
  being the full timestamp (e.g.
  2017-01-01T13-14-15.jpg).  The script then moves the
  original file to this location.

  Next, the script creates medium and thumbnail sized
  copies of the original (in the current working
  directory) and then uses the file '../tmpl' to generate
  an HTML file for each picture as well as an HTML
  index.

  As with most of my scripts, you can pass multiple
  '-v' flags to increase the verbosity of the tool;
  you can use the '-d' flag to not make any
  actual changes and the '-t' flag to only rename
  the files by timestamp, without generating HTML.

---

With these scripts, processing a large batch of photos
basically goes like this:

- store all photos and videos in a new folder, cd to
  it
- dedupe
- run 'livegif' to turn live photos into gifs;
  (live pics are accompanied by a .AAE file)
- remove live .movs
- run 'prepvideos' to process all remaining videos
- sortpics -d
- manually add timestamps to pictures where needed
- sortpics -t

Now all pictures are named by date.  Create folders
for your albums by date and move photos into them.

Finally run 'sortpics' again; this will generate the
HTML files and index.  You can then add captions to
the HTML files as needed.
